hey this is presto Walker and you're
watching mind your decisions
here's a tremendous logic puzzle after a
church service a priest and a cantor had
a conversation the priest asked do you
know the ages of the three visitors we
had today the Cantor said I do not know
the priest said what if I told you the
product of their ages is twenty four
fifty the Cantor did some calculations
and then replied I still don't know the
priest said interestingly the sum of
their ages is two times your age the
Cantor thought about it and said there
are still not enough information the
priest then said as you remember I did
not eat cake and my birthday party
choosing to be healthier I wonder if the
three people who came today will stop
eating cake when they reached my age the
Cantor then said now I know their ages
the puzzle is how old is the priest
I think Peter for sending me this puzzle
this is one of the most fun puzzles of
its kind and I highly encourage you to
work through all of the possibilities
and try and figure it out
you can logically solve for the age of
the priest can you figure it out give
this problem a try and when you're ready
keep watching the video for a solution
[Music]
so how can we figure out how old the
priest is we'll start with the first
clue that the product of their ages is
twenty four fifty
it will help us to consider the prime
factorization of 24 fifty which is two
times five squared times 7 squared now
we need to find three numbers whose
product is 24 50 we'll work through this
on a case-by-case basis one case is if
we have two factors that are equal to
one the only way this can happen is if
the third factor is 24 50 another case
is where we have a single factor that's
equal to one for the other two numbers
one number will be a factor of 24 50 say
X and then the other will be the other
factor that pairs with it which is 24 50
divided by X now from the prime
factorization we can easily figure out
each of the factors and its pair and we
can enumerate these possibilities so
these are some of the possibilities to
get the rest we consider the third case
where we work through that the smallest
factor is equal to 2 then we work
through the possibilities when the
smallest factor is equal to 5 and then
we work through all the possibilities
where the smallest factor is equal to 7
this will be all of the rest of the
cases so this will take some effort but
you can figure out that these are the
only possibilities now to be sure you
can check all of the cases with the
computer program to in Wolfram Alpha for
example you can put in the following
syntax that way you can check that these
are all of the cases so now what can we
do from here the next clue is that the
sum of their ages is 2 times the
Canter's age so we'll consider the sums
of each of these triplets now it'll take
some effort but we can see
statically figure out what each triplet
adds up to at this point the Cantor says
there are still not enough information
if the sum uniquely identified a triplet
the Cantor would know which some led to
which ages thus the sum was not uniquely
identify a triplet and must correspond
to two cases now out of these
possibilities only the sum of 64
corresponds to two different cases so
the sum must be equal to 64 so there are
two possibilities for the ages now for
the final clue the pre says something
about his birthday party and that he
didn't eat cake but he wonders if the
three people who came will stop eating
cake when they reach his age suddenly
the Cantor knows the ages of the three
people the implication is that the
Cantor knows the priests age and the
priest is older than three visitors if
the priest was fifty-one or older then
the Cantor could not did use anything
but since the Cantor could figure out
the ages it must have been that the
priest is 50 years old which eliminates
the 7750 case therefore the visitors
must be age five ten and forty nine the
Cantor's age is half their sum 64
divided by two which is equal to 32 and
the priest age is equal to 50 and like
magic we have figured out all five ages
did you figure it out
thanks for watching this video these
math videos which can be watched for
free inspire and build confidence for
people around the world and they already
have over a hundred million views with
your help we can share the beauty of
mathematics and make the world a better
place
please subscribe for free to get the
newest videos watch and share all of
mine your decisions videos email me a
puzzle or mat topic presh at mind your
decisions calm and if you so choose
you can check out my books which are
linked in the video description and you
can support me on patreon to earn
exclusive rewards thanks for watching
and thanks for your support